# DHFinal
Main Idea

For the final project, I am interested in exploring the theme of time within Victorian novels from the final decaide of the 1800s. I used Voyant to briefly exlpore this by adding Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and five of his contemporaries and the word "time" appeared a over 900 times between each novel. This lead me to believe that time was an underlying theme within novels from this period due to industeralization and factory work. The following is a more eloquent project proposal:

As the metropolis of London expanded, it ate, and ate, and ate. Forests were deforested to fuel expansion like never before seen. For the first and most violently noticeable time in history, humanity had made its mark on the Earth. The latter half of the 18th century saw the rise of the industry, with the first modern factory, Samuel Slater’s Rhode Island cotton-spinning factory, the Slater Mill. Though it benefited humanity beyond what those even 100 years after would ever realize, the first and second Industrial Revolutions were also detrimental to the planet’s environment. Aside from the destruction of forests, industrialization brought about the building of railroads and commercialized the steam engine, which greatly increased carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere. The gleam of new electric lamps at night inside the city created yet another new form of pollution, that of constant light. The constant illumination of the streets nullified stargazing and everything Percy Bysshe Shelley commended the night for in his poem “To Night.” Aside from the environmental pollution, the Industrial Revolutions also polluted natural life in the city. Children that were undoubtedly far too young by William Blake’s standards were forced into factory work and to lose their innocence through the horrible working conditions. In this sense, innocent children were replaced by “sickly” versions of themselves as life in the factory was exceedingly dangerous and small children were often hurt or maimed doing work (Yeats 53). There is however, something more devious than even the corruption of the innocent child that industrialization affects as it helps the city expand– industrialization forever perverted humanity's natural perception of time. Throughout this project, using novels written during the Victorian fin-de-siècle, I will explore how, because of industrialization and factory work, the concept of time became an ever present presence throughout the 19th century.
